[MUSIC]
So far we have studied
the bin packing problem and
tried to design a linear programming
relaxation with the ultimate goal
of finding an asymptotic
approximation scheme for the problem.
Here we will go back a little bit and
try to solve some special cases.
Why do we do that?
Remember that that a linear program
of relaxation is our first,
our favorite tool to design
approximation algorithms.
But the attempt we did failed.
We failed to have a good linear
programming relaxation for
linear backing, and so
we will try our next meta-tool,
our next technique,
to design an approximation algorithm.
When you are stuck, what do you do?
You reduce the problem further.
You try to solve some
interesting special cases.
That helps you develop intuition.
For now, we will look at the special case,
when all of the items are small.
Small compared to the bin capacity.
Let's be more specific.
How can you solve bin
packing more efficiently?
When every item has size less
than 1/3 of the bin capacity,
1/3 of the bin capacity.
Let's do an example.
.2,.3,.25,.33,.24,.29,.33,.2, and so on.
How does Next Fit perform in this case?
What does it do?
We can execute it on the sequence and
we can see that so far it uses three bins.
The first bin is filled to .75 level.
.2 plus .3 plus .25.
The next bin contains a total of .86.
The third bin contains a total of .53,
and right now even before we
have seen the following item.
We could already predict that
it's going to fit into bin three.
Why?
Because it's size is at most one-third.
Point five three plus something
to a third is less than one.
So the next item will fit in the bin.
We will be able to add
it to bin number three.
Something is going here
that did not happen before.
So, what we can see is that if a bin is
filled up to level less than two thirds,
then we are guaranteed to be
able to fit the next item.
If a bin is filled to less than two
thirds Then we will never close it.
In other words, we only close a bin once
it is filled to level at least two-thirds.
Since Next Fit closes every bin
except the last one, all the bins
except the last one Possibly,
are filled to at least two thirds.
All the bins are filled to at least
two-thirds, except possibly the last one.
What can we say from this?
This is good news!
If a bin is filled to two-thirds, then
It's already two thirds of 100% capacity.
In other words, the total size of the
items that are placed in the Next Fit bins
is at least two thirds times the number
of bins except for the last bin.
Much better than before.
We this way related the number of bins
used by Next Fit to the total item size.
We know that up is at least the total
item size, so we can combine.
And what do we deduce from this?
The number of bins used by
Next Fit is at most one plus.
3/2 x OPT.
1+ 3/2 x OPT.
This is much better than before.
Before we had 2 x OPT.
Now it's 1.5 x OPT.
To prove this we took advantage
of the fact that the items were
smaller than 1/3 x the bin capacity.
So we have just proved a theorem.
When all the items are smaller than
the one-third of the bin capacity,
the next fit algorithm you use
a number of bins that is at most 1
plus 1.5 times OPT.
So, what is the message
from this analysis?
From an example with small items
to a structural observation,
every bin is filled to
level two-thirds at least.
From that observation, you can deduce
an upper bound on the algorithm
in terms of the total item sizes.
With a different argument we
also have a lower bound on OPT
in terms of the total item sizes.
Combining yields a bounds
on bounds with small sizes.
This can be extended.
What if the items are less than one
quarter times the bin capacity?
What about one fifth?
What about one tenth?
What if the items are less than
epsilon times the bin capacity?
Then, next it is almost optimal,
next to the last bin.
This is a good exercise.
And so, we have seen that in some
special cases,when the items are small.
It is possible to get a good,
a better analysis of bin packing.
Next, what we will do is look
at some other special case,
the opposite case, so to speak,
when the items are large.
And after that,
once we have derived intuition for
the two special cases Everything small,
everything large.
We will be able to
combine the intuition and
finally analyze an algorithm that
is good for every possible input.